Game Philosophy

----------------------

DEVELOPMENT NOTE: The godot-mcp (Model Context Protocol) tool is available for development 
and debugging throughout this project. See implementation-plan.md and 
asset_integration_master_plan.md for detailed information on how to leverage this tool 
for scene creation, testing, debugging, and rapid prototyping.

----------------------

1. They have to defeat all enemy troops. 

2. In a draw there is a re-roll, since they cancel each other out. I am still debating if I should make it that one turn means the player gets to move each troop once, or if it mean only one troop for that turn. Help me decide. Before the game starts a turn time will be agreed on. Either 1 minute or 2. If both players run out of troops at the same time, then its a TIE. 2. Troops will spawn at the extremes of the board. There will be four hexagons that designated for that (if a troop is every respawned for any reason, it will be at one of those hexagons). Troops will spawn at the beginning of the game and if they find a respawn item (that item will be decided on later and how to get it). Respawning the troop will take the turn of that troop (or the player, depending if the player has the ability to move for than one troop per turn).

3. Damage is calculated based on the troops stats. The dice only acts as a mean to attack and defend. As in if one troop attacks the other, the players roll their dice. If the attacker has a higher roll, then the attack is successful and the damage is dealt. If the attacker has a lower roll, the defendant blocks the attack. Attacks can only be done after the troop has moved. The troop can only attack if the defending troop is in the range of the attacker. The troop can only attack once, one damage done, one roll of the dice. There has to be a line of sight for the attack to be possible. Air troops can attack all ground troops. Depending on the ground troop, it might be able to attack air troops, but some troops (for example giants) can only attack ground troops. Support troops will heal. How much will be decided when all the other troops stats are decided.

3. Starting amounts of XP will be 0. Starting amounts of gold will at least enough to build one gold mine of level 1. The gold mines generate gold every certain amount of time, how much will depend on the level of the mine. If the player can't afford anything then they are out of luck. All other economy wise will be decided later when balancing troops.

5. Either one action per troop, or one action per turn (will be decided later). Players cannot undo actions. The rest was mentioned previously.

6. Range is calculated by hex distance. Line of sight is based on terrain. Hex range is calculated from the one next to the troop, to the hex the opponents troop is standing on.

7. Biome modifies either add or take away damage dealt depending of the troop (for example an ice dragon will have a negative biome modifier if its in the volcanic biome, but will have a positive one if in a snow biome). Exact values will be decided when balancing troops. What do you mean modifiers stack? All troops can move through all biomes, it just decreases their attack significantly, making it more dangerous.

8. Gold mines can be placed next to any troop, anywhere on the map. Placing a mine does use an action. The mine can be placed on a hex, and will become an entity that can be destroyed by the opponents troops. The mine cannot defend against attacks. The mines have very little health and can be destroyed with one hit from any troop.

9. NPC spawn randomly as you wonder around the map. They appear specifically once the player moves the troop to a hex. NPC stats will be decided with those of the troops. NPCs cannot move, but will attack each time you are in range. XP reward will be decided as well as the gold. Players can attempt to get out of range from the NPCs, but wont know where they are until they encounter them with their unit.

10. Updating cost will be decided later. Stat increase amount will also. Update limit will be set to level 5, with each level being increasingly more expensive. Upgrades cannot be undone. What do you mean by UI/UX flow? Elaborate.

11. Elaborate on what you are asking.

12. Input is through mouse and keyboard. How do you think feedback should be designed?

13. You tell me which is better? Local or multiplayer (with multiplayer how more complicated would it be? Can it be plug and play?)

14. Invalid moves and/or action will not load, and an error popup will appear. Sure, there will be null reference protection, and save/load validation if easily implemented.

15. How should that be done? You tell me. I want all rendering to be simple through the Godot engine.

16. Selection highlights, Movement range visualization, Attack range visualization, Hover tooltips (stats, costs, ranges), Animation timing and easing, Visual distinction between player teams

17. Audio will be added in later.

18. Tutorial will be in the help section. As well as tooltips and system help.

19. Clicking the card will simply select your unit, that then can be moved by selecting hexes on the board. Timer will be small and in one of the corners of the screen. Action button states (enabled/disabled)? Elaborate. No undo/redo allowed. Settings menu will have graphics, audio, controls and will be implemented as the features are built.

20. Balance metrics will be recorded.

21. Only the 12 that are detailed will be used at the moment.

22. Are biome definitions are to be done by you.

23. Yes, Turn sequence diagram, Combat resolution flowchart, State transition diagram